--- 
layout: post 
title: "Welcome to My Homelab Journey!" 
--- 
## My Homelab Journey

Hello and welcome to my homelab blog, the digital space where I share my adventures, challenges, and triumphs in building and maintaining my very own homelab. If you've ever been intrigued by the idea of creating a personal lab environment where you can experiment with servers, networks, and all manner of tech projects, you've come to the right place!

## Who Am I?

I'm Ryan, an aspiring tech enthusiast trying to learn about various applications, software and hardware from the comfort of my own home. My goal with creating a homelab is to learn new skills for my own career progression as well as for my own enjoyment and fun! My journey into the world of homelabbing began when I had a classmate of mind discuss the idea of learning new applications and software combined in this concept of a "homelab". The hardware and skills they showcased always made me jealous from one perspective of not understanding what they were talking about but also from a point of view of wanting to do this for myself. Over time I continued to research a ton about what a homelab is and what I could do with one. Not wanting to spend a lot of money to start something, I realized I had some old spare PCs that would be perfect for the job. Since then I have been working out of a hand-me-down system and my first PC I bought on my own. Now, my passion and curiosity for understanding how digital environments work have only grown.

## What's a Homelab?

A homelab can be as simple as a single laptop running virtual machines or as complex as a rack filled with servers, networking gear, and storage systems. It's a playground for tech enthusiasts to learn, test, and develop skills that are not only satisfying personally but also valuable professionally. In my case I was able to repurpose a PC I had originally used as my main workstation and another machine that a sibling of mine had passed down to me. I never thought this would be the place to start but when the suggestion for starting a homelab is using any hardware you have that can be repurposed, it's really true! It's a best of both worlds to repurpose old hardware and learn new skills at the same time.

## Why Start This Blog?

This blog is born out of a desire to document my journey, share insights with fellow enthusiasts, and perhaps most importantly, create a community around the joys and pitfalls of homelabbing. I don't know much about this hobby, but the idea behind writing a blog every once in a while about what I have been working on or learning will motivate me to continue to expand my own skills whether big or small. To be honest, I also do not have the strongest of memories, so documenting aspects of my tech journey is never going to be a bad idea.

## What Can You Expect?

- **Tutorials and Guides:** Step-by-step articles documenting the process that I went through to tackle various projects.
- **Challenges and Solutions:** A look into the problems I've faced, the solutions I've devised, and the invaluable lessons learned along the way.
- **Personal Highlights:** Highlighting various projects I have worked on, enjoyed working on, or want to work on. 

The end goal for this blog will be to just write about things that I work on in my homelab and any other interesting challenges or projects that I come across. I might end up posting often or hardly at all, but if you're reading this now, I hope you can take a look around and find something that might help you or interest you. If you ever want to contact me, feel free to do so through my website at [theryanschumacher.com](https://theryanschumacher.com).
